         State(s):  Down

            Event:  Start

        New state:  Attempt

           Action:  Send an Hello Packet to the neighbor (this neighbor
                    is always associated with an NBMA network) and start
                    the Inactivity Timer for the neighbor.  The timer's
                    later firing would indicate that communication with
                    the neighbor was not attained.


         State(s):  Attempt




 [Page 89]



            Event:  HelloReceived

        New state:  Init

           Action:  Restart the Inactivity Timer for the neighbor, since
                    the neighbor has now been heard from.


         State(s):  Down

            Event:  HelloReceived

        New state:  Init

           Action:  Start the Inactivity Timer for the neighbor.  The
                    timer's later firing would indicate that the
                    neighbor is dead.


         State(s):  Init or greater

            Event:  HelloReceived

        New state:  No state change.

           Action:  Restart the Inactivity Timer for the neighbor, since
                    the neighbor has again been heard from.


         State(s):  Init

            Event:  2-WayReceived

        New state:  Depends upon action routine.

           Action:  Determine whether an adjacency should be established
                    with the neighbor (see Section 10.4).  If not, the
                    new neighbor state is 2-Way.

                    Otherwise (an adjacency should be established) the
                    neighbor state transitions to ExStart.  Upon
                    entering this state, the router increments the DD



 [Page 90]



                    sequence number in the neighbor data structure.  If
                    this is the first time that an adjacency has been
                    attempted, the DD sequence number should be assigned
                    some unique value (like the time of day clock).  It
                    then declares itself master (sets the master/slave
                    bit to master), and starts sending Database
                    Description Packets, with the initialize (I), more
                    (M) and master (MS) bits set.  This Database
                    Description Packet should be otherwise empty.  This
                    Database Description Packet should be retransmitted
                    at intervals of RxmtInterval until the next state is
                    entered (see Section 10.8).


         State(s):  ExStart

            Event:  NegotiationDone

        New state:  Exchange

           Action:  The router must list the contents of its entire area
                    link state database in the neighbor Database summary
                    list.  The area link state database consists of the
                    router-LSAs, network-LSAs and summary-LSAs contained
                    in the area structure, along with the AS-external-
                    LSAs contained in the global structure.  AS-
                    external-LSAs are omitted from a virtual neighbor's
                    Database summary list.  AS-external-LSAs are omitted
                    from the Database summary list if the area has been
                    configured as a stub (see Section 3.6).  LSAs whose
                    age is equal to MaxAge are instead added to the
                    neighbor's Link state retransmission list.  A
                    summary of the Database summary list will be sent to
                    the neighbor in Database Description packets.  Each
                    Database Description Packet has a DD sequence
                    number, and is explicitly acknowledged.  Only one
                    Database Description Packet is allowed outstanding
                    at any one time.  For more detail on the sending and
                    receiving of Database Description packets, see
                    Sections 10.8 and 10.6.





 [Page 91]



         State(s):  Exchange

            Event:  ExchangeDone

        New state:  Depends upon action routine.

           Action:  If the neighbor Link state request list is empty,
                    the new neighbor state is Full.  No other action is
                    required.  This is an adjacency's final state.

                    Otherwise, the new neighbor state is Loading.  Start
                    (or continue) sending Link State Request packets to
                    the neighbor (see Section 10.9).  These are requests
                    for the neighbor's more recent LSAs (which were
                    discovered but not yet received in the Exchange
                    state).  These LSAs are listed in the Link state
                    request list associated with the neighbor.


         State(s):  Loading

            Event:  Loading Done

        New state:  Full

           Action:  No action required.  This is an adjacency's final
                    state.


         State(s):  2-Way

            Event:  AdjOK?

        New state:  Depends upon action routine.

           Action:  Determine whether an adjacency should be formed with
                    the neighboring router (see Section 10.4).  If not,
                    the neighbor state remains at 2-Way.  Otherwise,
                    transition the neighbor state to ExStart and perform
                    the actions associated with the above state machine
                    entry for state Init and event 2-WayReceived.




 [Page 92]



         State(s):  ExStart or greater

            Event:  AdjOK?

        New state:  Depends upon action routine.

           Action:  Determine whether the neighboring router should
                    still be adjacent.  If yes, there is no state change
                    and no further action is necessary.

                    Otherwise, the (possibly partially formed) adjacency
                    must be destroyed.  The neighbor state transitions
                    to 2-Way.  The Link state retransmission list,
                    Database summary list and Link state request list
                    are cleared of LSAs.


         State(s):  Exchange or greater

            Event:  SeqNumberMismatch

        New state:  ExStart

           Action:  The (possibly partially formed) adjacency is torn
                    down, and then an attempt is made at
                    reestablishment.  The neighbor state first
                    transitions to ExStart.  The Link state
                    retransmission list, Database summary list and Link
                    state request list are cleared of LSAs.  Then the
                    router increments the DD sequence number in the
                    neighbor data structure, declares itself master
                    (sets the master/slave bit to master), and starts
                    sending Database Description Packets, with the
                    initialize (I), more (M) and master (MS) bits set.
                    This Database Description Packet should be otherwise
                    empty (see Section 10.8).


         State(s):  Exchange or greater

            Event:  BadLSReq




 [Page 93]



        New state:  ExStart

           Action:  The action for event BadLSReq is exactly the same as
                    for the neighbor event SeqNumberMismatch.  The
                    (possibly partially formed) adjacency is torn down,
                    and then an attempt is made at reestablishment.  For
                    more information, see the neighbor state machine
                    entry that is invoked when event SeqNumberMismatch
                    is generated in state Exchange or greater.


         State(s):  Any state

            Event:  KillNbr

        New state:  Down

           Action:  The Link state retransmission list, Database summary
                    list and Link state request list are cleared of
                    LSAs.  Also, the Inactivity Timer is disabled.


         State(s):  Any state

            Event:  LLDown

        New state:  Down

           Action:  The Link state retransmission list, Database summary
                    list and Link state request list are cleared of
                    LSAs.  Also, the Inactivity Timer is disabled.


         State(s):  Any state

            Event:  InactivityTimer

        New state:  Down

           Action:  The Link state retransmission list, Database summary
                    list and Link state request list are cleared of
                    LSAs.



 [Page 94]



         State(s):  2-Way or greater

            Event:  1-WayReceived

        New state:  Init

           Action:  The Link state retransmission list, Database summary
                    list and Link state request list are cleared of
                    LSAs.


         State(s):  2-Way or greater

            Event:  2-WayReceived

        New state:  No state change.

           Action:  No action required.


         State(s):  Init

            Event:  1-WayReceived

        New state:  No state change.

           Action:  No action required.

