9.  The Interface Data Structure

    An OSPF interface is the connection between a router and a network.
    We assume a single OSPF interface to each attached network/subnet,
    although supporting multiple interfaces on a single network is
    considered in Appendix F. Each interface structure has at most one
    IP interface address.





Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 63]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    An OSPF interface can be considered to belong to the area that
    contains the attached network.  All routing protocol packets
    originated by the router over this interface are labelled with the
    interface's Area ID.  One or more router adjacencies may develop
    over an interface.  A router's LSAs reflect the state of its
    interfaces and their associated adjacencies.

    The following data items are associated with an interface.  Note
    that a number of these items are actually configuration for the
    attached network; such items must be the same for all routers
    connected to the network.

    Type
        The OSPF interface type is either point-to-point, broadcast,
        NBMA, Point-to-MultiPoint or virtual link.

    State
        The functional level of an interface.  State determines whether
        or not full adjacencies are allowed to form over the interface.
        State is also reflected in the router's LSAs.

    IP interface address
        The IP address associated with the interface.  This appears as
        the IP source address in all routing protocol packets originated
        over this interface.  Interfaces to unnumbered point-to-point
        networks do not have an associated IP address.

    IP interface mask
        Also referred to as the subnet mask, this indicates the portion
        of the IP interface address that identifies the attached
        network.  Masking the IP interface address with the IP interface
        mask yields the IP network number of the attached network.  On
        point-to-point networks and virtual links, the IP interface mask
        is not defined. On these networks, the link itself is not
        assigned an IP network number, and so the addresses of each side
        of the link are assigned independently, if they are assigned at
        all.

    Area ID
        The Area ID of the area to which the attached network belongs.
        All routing protocol packets originating from the interface are
        labelled with this Area ID.



Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 64]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    HelloInterval
        The length of time, in seconds, between the Hello packets that
        the router sends on the interface.  Advertised in Hello packets
        sent out this interface.

    RouterDeadInterval
        The number of seconds before the router's neighbors will declare
        it down, when they stop hearing the router's Hello Packets.
        Advertised in Hello packets sent out this interface.

    InfTransDelay
        The estimated number of seconds it takes to transmit a Link
        State Update Packet over this interface.  LSAs contained in the
        Link State Update packet will have their age incremented by this
        amount before transmission.  This value should take into account
        transmission and propagation delays; it must be greater than
        zero.

    Router Priority
        An 8-bit unsigned integer.  When two routers attached to a
        network both attempt to become Designated Router, the one with
        the highest Router Priority takes precedence.  A router whose
        Router Priority is set to 0 is ineligible to become Designated
        Router on the attached network.  Advertised in Hello packets
        sent out this interface.

    Hello Timer
        An interval timer that causes the interface to send a Hello
        packet.  This timer fires every HelloInterval seconds.  Note
        that on non-broadcast networks a separate Hello packet is sent
        to each qualified neighbor.

    Wait Timer
        A single shot timer that causes the interface to exit the
        Waiting state, and as a consequence select a Designated Router
        on the network.  The length of the timer is RouterDeadInterval
        seconds.

    List of neighboring routers
        The other routers attached to this network.  This list is formed
        by the Hello Protocol.  Adjacencies will be formed to some of




Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 65]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        these neighbors.  The set of adjacent neighbors can be
        determined by an examination of all of the neighbors' states.

    Designated Router
        The Designated Router selected for the attached network.  The
        Designated Router is selected on all broadcast and NBMA networks
        by the Hello Protocol.  Two pieces of identification are kept
        for the Designated Router: its Router ID and its IP interface
        address on the network.  The Designated Router advertises link
        state for the network; this network-LSA is labelled with the
        Designated Router's IP address.  The Designated Router is
        initialized to 0.0.0.0, which indicates the lack of a Designated
        Router.

    Backup Designated Router
        The Backup Designated Router is also selected on all broadcast
        and NBMA networks by the Hello Protocol.  All routers on the
        attached network become adjacent to both the Designated Router
        and the Backup Designated Router.  The Backup Designated Router
        becomes Designated Router when the current Designated Router
        fails.  The Backup Designated Router is initialized to 0.0.0.0,
        indicating the lack of a Backup Designated Router.

    Interface output cost(s)
        The cost of sending a data packet on the interface, expressed in
        the link state metric.  This is advertised as the link cost for
        this interface in the router-LSA. The cost of an interface must
        be greater than zero.

    RxmtInterval
        The number of seconds between LSA retransmissions, for
        adjacencies belonging to this interface.  Also used when
        retransmitting Database Description and Link State Request
        Packets.

    AuType
        The type of authentication used on the attached network/subnet.
        Authentication types are defined in Appendix D.  All OSPF packet
        exchanges are authenticated.  Different authentication schemes
        may be used on different networks/subnets.





Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 66]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


    Authentication key
        This configured data allows the authentication procedure to
        generate and/or verify OSPF protocol packets.  The
        Authentication key can be configured on a per-interface basis.
        For example, if the AuType indicates simple password, the
        Authentication key would be a 64-bit clear password which is
        inserted into the OSPF packet header. If instead Autype
        indicates Cryptographic authentication, then the Authentication
        key is a shared secret which enables the generation/verification
        of message digests which are appended to the OSPF protocol
        packets. When Cryptographic authentication is used, multiple
        simultaneous keys are supported in order to achieve smooth key
        transition (see Section D.3).


    9.1.  Interface states

        The various states that router interfaces may attain is
        documented in this section.  The states are listed in order of
        progressing functionality.  For example, the inoperative state
        is listed first, followed by a list of intermediate states
        before the final, fully functional state is achieved.  The
        specification makes use of this ordering by sometimes making
        references such as "those interfaces in state greater than X".
        Figure 11 shows the graph of interface state changes.  The arcs
        of the graph are labelled with the event causing the state
        change.  These events are documented in Section 9.2.  The
        interface state machine is described in more detail in Section
        9.3.


        Down
            This is the initial interface state.  In this state, the
            lower-level protocols have indicated that the interface is
            unusable.  No protocol traffic at all will be sent or
            received on such a interface.  In this state, interface
            parameters should be set to their initial values.  All
            interface timers should be disabled, and there should be no
            adjacencies associated with the interface.

        Loopback
            In this state, the router's interface to the network is



Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 67]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998



                                  +----+   UnloopInd   +--------+
                                  |Down|<--------------|Loopback|
                                  +----+               +--------+
                                     |
                                     |InterfaceUp
                          +-------+  |               +--------------+
                          |Waiting|<-+-------------->|Point-to-point|
                          +-------+                  +--------------+
                              |
                     WaitTimer|BackupSeen
                              |
                              |
                              |   NeighborChange
          +------+           +-+<---------------- +-------+
          |Backup|<----------|?|----------------->|DROther|
          +------+---------->+-+<-----+           +-------+
                    Neighbor  |       |
                    Change    |       |Neighbor
                              |       |Change
                              |     +--+
                              +---->|DR|
                                    +--+

                      Figure 11: Interface State changes

                 In addition to the state transitions pictured,
                 Event InterfaceDown always forces Down State, and
                 Event LoopInd always forces Loopback State


            looped back.  The interface may be looped back in hardware
            or software.  The interface will be unavailable for regular
            data traffic.  However, it may still be desirable to gain
            information on the quality of this interface, either through
            sending ICMP pings to the interface or through something
            like a bit error test.  For this reason, IP packets may
            still be addressed to an interface in Loopback state.  To







Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 68]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            facilitate this, such interfaces are advertised in router-
            LSAs as single host routes, whose destination is the IP
            interface address.[4]

        Waiting
            In this state, the router is trying to determine the
            identity of the (Backup) Designated Router for the network.
            To do this, the router monitors the Hello Packets it
            receives.  The router is not allowed to elect a Backup
            Designated Router nor a Designated Router until it
            transitions out of Waiting state.  This prevents unnecessary
            changes of (Backup) Designated Router.

        Point-to-point
            In this state, the interface is operational, and connects
            either to a physical point-to-point network or to a virtual
            link.  Upon entering this state, the router attempts to form
            an adjacency with the neighboring router.  Hello Packets are
            sent to the neighbor every HelloInterval seconds.

        DR Other
            The interface is to a broadcast or NBMA network on which
            another router has been selected to be the Designated
            Router.  In this state, the router itself has not been
            selected Backup Designated Router either.  The router forms
            adjacencies to both the Designated Router and the Backup
            Designated Router (if they exist).

        Backup
            In this state, the router itself is the Backup Designated
            Router on the attached network.  It will be promoted to
            Designated Router when the present Designated Router fails.
            The router establishes adjacencies to all other routers
            attached to the network.  The Backup Designated Router
            performs slightly different functions during the Flooding
            Procedure, as compared to the Designated Router (see Section
            13.3).  See Section 7.4 for more details on the functions
            performed by the Backup Designated Router.

        DR  In this state, this router itself is the Designated Router
            on the attached network.  Adjacencies are established to all
            other routers attached to the network.  The router must also



Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 69]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            originate a network-LSA for the network node.  The network-
            LSA will contain links to all routers (including the
            Designated Router itself) attached to the network.  See
            Section 7.3 for more details on the functions performed by
            the Designated Router.


    9.2.  Events causing interface state changes

        State changes can be effected by a number of events.  These
        events are pictured as the labelled arcs in Figure 11.  The
        label definitions are listed below.  For a detailed explanation
        of the effect of these events on OSPF protocol operation,
        consult Section 9.3.


        InterfaceUp
            Lower-level protocols have indicated that the network
            interface is operational.  This enables the interface to
            transition out of Down state.  On virtual links, the
            interface operational indication is actually a result of the
            shortest path calculation (see Section 16.7).

        WaitTimer
            The Wait Timer has fired, indicating the end of the waiting
            period that is required before electing a (Backup)
            Designated Router.

        BackupSeen
            The router has detected the existence or non-existence of a
            Backup Designated Router for the network.  This is done in
            one of two ways.  First, an Hello Packet may be received
            from a neighbor claiming to be itself the Backup Designated
            Router.  Alternatively, an Hello Packet may be received from
            a neighbor claiming to be itself the Designated Router, and
            indicating that there is no Backup Designated Router.  In
            either case there must be bidirectional communication with
            the neighbor, i.e., the router must also appear in the
            neighbor's Hello Packet.  This event signals an end to the
            Waiting state.





Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 70]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        NeighborChange
            There has been a change in the set of bidirectional
            neighbors associated with the interface.  The (Backup)
            Designated Router needs to be recalculated.  The following
            neighbor changes lead to the NeighborChange event.  For an
            explanation of neighbor states, see Section 10.1.

            o   Bidirectional communication has been established to a
                neighbor.  In other words, the state of the neighbor has
                transitioned to 2-Way or higher.

            o   There is no longer bidirectional communication with a
                neighbor.  In other words, the state of the neighbor has
                transitioned to Init or lower.

            o   One of the bidirectional neighbors is newly declaring
                itself as either Designated Router or Backup Designated
                Router.  This is detected through examination of that
                neighbor's Hello Packets.

            o   One of the bidirectional neighbors is no longer
                declaring itself as Designated Router, or is no longer
                declaring itself as Backup Designated Router.  This is
                again detected through examination of that neighbor's
                Hello Packets.

            o   The advertised Router Priority for a bidirectional
                neighbor has changed.  This is again detected through
                examination of that neighbor's Hello Packets.

        LoopInd
            An indication has been received that the interface is now
            looped back to itself.  This indication can be received
            either from network management or from the lower level
            protocols.

        UnloopInd
            An indication has been received that the interface is no
            longer looped back.  As with the LoopInd event, this






Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 71]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            indication can be received either from network management or
            from the lower level protocols.

        InterfaceDown
            Lower-level protocols indicate that this interface is no
            longer functional.  No matter what the current interface
            state is, the new interface state will be Down.

    9.3.  The Interface state machine

        A detailed description of the interface state changes follows.
        Each state change is invoked by an event (Section 9.2).  This
        event may produce different effects, depending on the current
        state of the interface.  For this reason, the state machine
        below is organized by current interface state and received
        event.  Each entry in the state machine describes the resulting
        new interface state and the required set of additional actions.

        When an interface's state changes, it may be necessary to
        originate a new router-LSA.  See Section 12.4 for more details.

        Some of the required actions below involve generating events for
        the neighbor state machine.  For example, when an interface
        becomes inoperative, all neighbor connections associated with
        the interface must be destroyed.  For more information on the
        neighbor state machine, see Section 10.3.


         State(s):  Down

            Event:  InterfaceUp

        New state:  Depends upon action routine

           Action:  Start the interval Hello Timer, enabling the
                    periodic sending of Hello packets out the interface.
                    If the attached network is a physical point-to-point
                    network, Point-to-MultiPoint network or virtual
                    link, the interface state transitions to Point-to-
                    Point.  Else, if the router is not eligible to
                    become Designated Router the interface state
                    transitions to DR Other.



Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 72]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


                    Otherwise, the attached network is a broadcast or
                    NBMA network and the router is eligible to become
                    Designated Router.  In this case, in an attempt to
                    discover the attached network's Designated Router
                    the interface state is set to Waiting and the single
                    shot Wait Timer is started.  Additionally, if the
                    network is an NBMA network examine the configured
                    list of neighbors for this interface and generate
                    the neighbor event Start for each neighbor that is
                    also eligible to become Designated Router.


         State(s):  Waiting

            Event:  BackupSeen

        New state:  Depends upon action routine.

           Action:  Calculate the attached network's Backup Designated
                    Router and Designated Router, as shown in Section
                    9.4.  As a result of this calculation, the new state
                    of the interface will be either DR Other, Backup or
                    DR.


         State(s):  Waiting

            Event:  WaitTimer

        New state:  Depends upon action routine.

           Action:  Calculate the attached network's Backup Designated
                    Router and Designated Router, as shown in Section
                    9.4.  As a result of this calculation, the new state
                    of the interface will be either DR Other, Backup or
                    DR.


         State(s):  DR Other, Backup or DR

            Event:  NeighborChange




Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 73]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        New state:  Depends upon action routine.

           Action:  Recalculate the attached network's Backup Designated
                    Router and Designated Router, as shown in Section
                    9.4.  As a result of this calculation, the new state
                    of the interface will be either DR Other, Backup or
                    DR.


         State(s):  Any State

            Event:  InterfaceDown

        New state:  Down

           Action:  All interface variables are reset, and interface
                    timers disabled.  Also, all neighbor connections
                    associated with the interface are destroyed.  This
                    is done by generating the event KillNbr on all
                    associated neighbors (see Section 10.2).


         State(s):  Any State

            Event:  LoopInd

        New state:  Loopback

           Action:  Since this interface is no longer connected to the
                    attached network the actions associated with the
                    above InterfaceDown event are executed.


         State(s):  Loopback

            Event:  UnloopInd

        New state:  Down

           Action:  No actions are necessary.  For example, the
                    interface variables have already been reset upon
                    entering the Loopback state.  Note that reception of



Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 74]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


                    an InterfaceUp event is necessary before the
                    interface again becomes fully functional.


    9.4.  Electing the Designated Router

        This section describes the algorithm used for calculating a
        network's Designated Router and Backup Designated Router.  This
        algorithm is invoked by the Interface state machine.  The
        initial time a router runs the election algorithm for a network,
        the network's Designated Router and Backup Designated Router are
        initialized to 0.0.0.0.  This indicates the lack of both a
        Designated Router and a Backup Designated Router.

        The Designated Router election algorithm proceeds as follows:
        Call the router doing the calculation Router X.  The list of
        neighbors attached to the network and having established
        bidirectional communication with Router X is examined.  This
        list is precisely the collection of Router X's neighbors (on
        this network) whose state is greater than or equal to 2-Way (see
        Section 10.1).  Router X itself is also considered to be on the
        list.  Discard all routers from the list that are ineligible to
        become Designated Router.  (Routers having Router Priority of 0
        are ineligible to become Designated Router.)  The following
        steps are then executed, considering only those routers that
        remain on the list:

        (1) Note the current values for the network's Designated Router
            and Backup Designated Router.  This is used later for
            comparison purposes.

        (2) Calculate the new Backup Designated Router for the network
            as follows.  Only those routers on the list that have not
            declared themselves to be Designated Router are eligible to
            become Backup Designated Router.  If one or more of these
            routers have declared themselves Backup Designated Router
            (i.e., they are currently listing themselves as Backup
            Designated Router, but not as Designated Router, in their
            Hello Packets) the one having highest Router Priority is
            declared to be Backup Designated Router.  In case of a tie,
            the one having the highest Router ID is chosen.  If no
            routers have declared themselves Backup Designated Router,



Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 75]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            choose the router having highest Router Priority, (again
            excluding those routers who have declared themselves
            Designated Router), and again use the Router ID to break
            ties.

        (3) Calculate the new Designated Router for the network as
            follows.  If one or more of the routers have declared
            themselves Designated Router (i.e., they are currently
            listing themselves as Designated Router in their Hello
            Packets) the one having highest Router Priority is declared
            to be Designated Router.  In case of a tie, the one having
            the highest Router ID is chosen.  If no routers have
            declared themselves Designated Router, assign the Designated
            Router to be the same as the newly elected Backup Designated
            Router.

        (4) If Router X is now newly the Designated Router or newly the
            Backup Designated Router, or is now no longer the Designated
            Router or no longer the Backup Designated Router, repeat
            steps 2 and 3, and then proceed to step 5.  For example, if
            Router X is now the Designated Router, when step 2 is
            repeated X will no longer be eligible for Backup Designated
            Router election.  Among other things, this will ensure that
            no router will declare itself both Backup Designated Router
            and Designated Router.[5]

        (5) As a result of these calculations, the router itself may now
            be Designated Router or Backup Designated Router.  See
            Sections 7.3 and 7.4 for the additional duties this would
            entail.  The router's interface state should be set
            accordingly.  If the router itself is now Designated Router,
            the new interface state is DR.  If the router itself is now
            Backup Designated Router, the new interface state is Backup.
            Otherwise, the new interface state is DR Other.

        (6) If the attached network is an NBMA network, and the router
            itself has just become either Designated Router or Backup
            Designated Router, it must start sending Hello Packets to
            those neighbors that are not eligible to become Designated
            Router (see Section 9.5.1).  This is done by invoking the
            neighbor event Start for each neighbor having a Router
            Priority of 0.



Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 76]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        (7) If the above calculations have caused the identity of either
            the Designated Router or Backup Designated Router to change,
            the set of adjacencies associated with this interface will
            need to be modified.  Some adjacencies may need to be
            formed, and others may need to be broken.  To accomplish
            this, invoke the event AdjOK?  on all neighbors whose state
            is at least 2-Way.  This will cause their eligibility for
            adjacency to be reexamined (see Sections 10.3 and 10.4).


        The reason behind the election algorithm's complexity is the
        desire for an orderly transition from Backup Designated Router
        to Designated Router, when the current Designated Router fails.
        This orderly transition is ensured through the introduction of
        hysteresis: no new Backup Designated Router can be chosen until
        the old Backup accepts its new Designated Router
        responsibilities.

        The above procedure may elect the same router to be both
        Designated Router and Backup Designated Router, although that
        router will never be the calculating router (Router X) itself.
        The elected Designated Router may not be the router having the
        highest Router Priority, nor will the Backup Designated Router
        necessarily have the second highest Router Priority.  If Router
        X is not itself eligible to become Designated Router, it is
        possible that neither a Backup Designated Router nor a
        Designated Router will be selected in the above procedure.  Note
        also that if Router X is the only attached router that is
        eligible to become Designated Router, it will select itself as
        Designated Router and there will be no Backup Designated Router
        for the network.


    9.5.  Sending Hello packets

        Hello packets are sent out each functioning router interface.
        They are used to discover and maintain neighbor
        relationships.[6] On broadcast and NBMA networks, Hello Packets
        are also used to elect the Designated Router and Backup
        Designated Router.





Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 77]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        The format of an Hello packet is detailed in Section A.3.2.  The
        Hello Packet contains the router's Router Priority (used in
        choosing the Designated Router), and the interval between Hello
        Packets sent out the interface (HelloInterval).  The Hello
        Packet also indicates how often a neighbor must be heard from to
        remain active (RouterDeadInterval).  Both HelloInterval and
        RouterDeadInterval must be the same for all routers attached to
        a common network.  The Hello packet also contains the IP address
        mask of the attached network (Network Mask).  On unnumbered
        point-to-point networks and on virtual links this field should
        be set to 0.0.0.0.

        The Hello packet's Options field describes the router's optional
        OSPF capabilities.  One optional capability is defined in this
        specification (see Sections 4.5 and A.2).  The E-bit of the
        Options field should be set if and only if the attached area is
        capable of processing AS-external-LSAs (i.e., it is not a stub
        area).  If the E-bit is set incorrectly the neighboring routers
        will refuse to accept the Hello Packet (see Section 10.5).
        Unrecognized bits in the Hello Packet's Options field should be
        set to zero.

        In order to ensure two-way communication between adjacent
        routers, the Hello packet contains the list of all routers on
        the network from which Hello Packets have been seen recently.
        The Hello packet also contains the router's current choice for
        Designated Router and Backup Designated Router.  A value of
        0.0.0.0 in these fields means that one has not yet been
        selected.

        On broadcast networks and physical point-to-point networks,
        Hello packets are sent every HelloInterval seconds to the IP
        multicast address AllSPFRouters.  On virtual links, Hello
        packets are sent as unicasts (addressed directly to the other
        end of the virtual link) every HelloInterval seconds. On Point-
        to-MultiPoint networks, separate Hello packets are sent to each
        attached neighbor every HelloInterval seconds. Sending of Hello
        packets on NBMA networks is covered in the next section.







Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 78]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


        9.5.1.  Sending Hello packets on NBMA networks

            Static configuration information may be necessary in order
            for the Hello Protocol to function on non-broadcast networks
            (see Sections C.5 and C.6).  On NBMA networks, every
            attached router which is eligible to become Designated
            Router becomes aware of all of its neighbors on the network
            (either through configuration or by some unspecified
            mechanism).  Each neighbor is labelled with the neighbor's
            Designated Router eligibility.

            The interface state must be at least Waiting for any Hello
            Packets to be sent out the NBMA interface.  Hello Packets
            are then sent directly (as unicasts) to some subset of a
            router's neighbors.  Sometimes an Hello Packet is sent
            periodically on a timer; at other times it is sent as a
            response to a received Hello Packet.  A router's hello-
            sending behavior varies depending on whether the router
            itself is eligible to become Designated Router.

            If the router is eligible to become Designated Router, it
            must periodically send Hello Packets to all neighbors that
            are also eligible.  In addition, if the router is itself the
            Designated Router or Backup Designated Router, it must also
            send periodic Hello Packets to all other neighbors.  This
            means that any two eligible routers are always exchanging
            Hello Packets, which is necessary for the correct operation
            of the Designated Router election algorithm.  To minimize
            the number of Hello Packets sent, the number of eligible
            routers on an NBMA network should be kept small.

            If the router is not eligible to become Designated Router,
            it must periodically send Hello Packets to both the
            Designated Router and the Backup Designated Router (if they
            exist).  It must also send an Hello Packet in reply to an
            Hello Packet received from any eligible neighbor (other than
            the current Designated Router and Backup Designated Router).
            This is needed to establish an initial bidirectional
            relationship with any potential Designated Router.

            When sending Hello packets periodically to any neighbor, the
            interval between Hello Packets is determined by the



Moy                         Standards Track                    [Page 79]

RFC 2328                     OSPF Version 2                   April 1998


            neighbor's state.  If the neighbor is in state Down, Hello
            Packets are sent every PollInterval seconds.  Otherwise,
            Hello Packets are sent every HelloInterval seconds.